.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, before:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: 'bug: pending triage'
assignees: ''
---

<!--
中文用户请注意：请仔细阅读以下模版，如果不遵循模版，issue 将会被直接关闭。
-->

**⚠️ IMPORTANT ⚠️ Please do not ignore this template. If you do, your issue will be closed immediately.**

- [ ] Read [the docs](https://vitejs.dev/guide/).
- [ ] Make sure this is a Vite issue and not a framework-specific issue. For example, if it's a Vue SFC related bug, it should likely be reported to https://github.com/vuejs/vue-next instead.

## Describe the bug

A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

## Reproduction

Please provide a link to a repo that can reproduce the problem you ran into.

A reproduction is **required** unless you are absolutely sure that the the problem is obvious and the information you provided is enough for us to understand what the problem is. If a report has only vague description (e.g. just a generic error message) and has no reproduction, it will receive "need reproduction" label. If no reproduction is provided after 3 days, it will be auto-closed.

## System Info

- `vite` version:
- Operating System:
- Node version:
- Package manager (npm/yarn/pnpm) and version:

## Logs (Optional if provided reproduction)

1. Run `vite` or `vite build` with the `--debug` flag.
2. Provide the error log here.

Commit message:

chore: github discussions and discord in bug report template (#2296) [skip ci]

.github/ISSUE_TEMPLATE/bug_report.md, after:

---
name: Bug report
about: Create a report to help us improve
title: ''
labels: 'bug: pending triage'
assignees: ''
---

<!--
中文用户请注意：请仔细阅读以下模版，如果不遵循模版，issue 将会被直接关闭。
-->

**⚠️ IMPORTANT ⚠️ Please do not ignore this template. If you do, your issue will be closed immediately.**

- [ ] Read [the docs](https://vitejs.dev/guide/).
- [ ] Make sure this is a Vite issue and not a framework-specific issue. For example, if it's a Vue SFC related bug, it should likely be reported to https://github.com/vuejs/vue-next instead.
- [ ] This is a concrete bug. For Q&A open a [GitHub Discussion](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/discussions) or join our [Discord Chat Server](https://chat.vitejs.dev/).

## Describe the bug

A clear and concise description of what the bug is.

## Reproduction

Please provide a link to a repo that can reproduce the problem you ran into.

A reproduction is **required** unless you are absolutely sure that the the problem is obvious and the information you provided is enough for us to understand what the problem is. If a report has only vague description (e.g. just a generic error message) and has no reproduction, it will receive "need reproduction" label. If no reproduction is provided after 3 days, it will be auto-closed.

## System Info

- `vite` version:
- Operating System:
- Node version:
- Package manager (npm/yarn/pnpm) and version:

## Logs (Optional if provided reproduction)

1. Run `vite` or `vite build` with the `--debug` flag.
2. Provide the error log here.
