- [Move to Per-environment APIs](/changes/per-environment-apis)
- [SSR Using `ModuleRunner` API](/changes/ssr-using-modulerunner)
:::info Release Candidate
The Environment API is generally in the release candidate phase. We'll maintain stability in the APIs between major releases to allow the ecosystem to experiment and build upon them. However, note that [some specific APIs](/changes/#considering) are still considered experimental.

We plan to stabilize these new APIs (with potential breaking changes) in a future major release once downstream projects have had time to experiment with the new features and validate them.
Vite 6 formalizes the concept of Environments. Until Vite 5, there were two implicit Environments (`client`, and optionally `ssr`). The new Environment API allows users and framework authors to create as many environments as needed to map the way their apps work in production. This new capability required a big internal refactoring, but a lot of effort has been placed on backward compatibility. The initial goal of Vite 6 is to move the ecosystem to the new major as smoothly as possible, delaying the adoption of the APIs until enough users have migrated and frameworks and plugin authors have validated the new design.
The current Vite server API is not yet deprecated and is backward compatible with Vite 5.
When not explicitly documented, environment inherits the configured top-level config options (for example, the new `server` and `edge` environments will inherit the `build.sourcemap: false` option). A small number of top-level options, like `optimizeDeps`, only apply to the `client` environment, as they don't work well when applied as a default to server environments. Those options have <NonInheritBadge /> badge in [the reference](/config/). The `client` environment can also be configured explicitly through `environments.client`, but we recommend to do it with the top-level options so the client config remains unchanged when adding new environments.