docs/config/index.md, before:

# Configuring Vite

## Config File

### Config File Resolving

When running `vite` from the command line, Vite will automatically try to resolve a config file named `vite.config.js` inside [project root](/guide/#project-root).

The most basic config file looks like this:

```js
// vite.config.js
export default {
  // config options
}
```

Note Vite supports using ES modules syntax in the config file even if the project is not using native Node ESM via `type: "module"`. In this case the config file is auto pre-processed before load.

You can also explicitly specify a config file to use with the `--config` CLI option (resolved relative to `cwd`):

```bash
vite --config my-config.js
```

### Config Intellisense

Since Vite ships with TypeScript typings, you can leverage your IDE's intellisense with jsdoc type hints:

```js
/**
 * type {import('vite').UserConfig}
 */
export default {
  // ...
}
```

Vite also directly supports TS config files. You can use `vite.config.ts` instead:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'

export default defineConfig({
  // ...
})
```

### Conditional Config

If the config needs to conditional determine options based on the command (`serve` or `build`) or the [mode](/guide/env-and-mode) being used, it can export a function instead:

```js
export default ({ command, mode }) => {
  if (command === 'serve') {
    return {
      // serve specific config
    }
  } else {
    return {
      // build specific config
    }
  }
}
```

## Shared Options

### alias

- **Type:**
  `Record<string, string> | Array<{ find: string | RegExp, replacement: string }>`

  Will be passed to `@rollup/plugin-alias` as its [entries option](https://github.com/rollup/plugins/tree/master/packages/alias#entries). Can either be an object, or an array of `{ find, replacement }` pairs.

  When aliasing to file system paths, always use absolute paths. Relative alias values will be used as-is and will not be resolved into file system paths.

  More advanced custom resolution can be achieved through [plugins](/guide/api-plugin).

### define

- **Type:** `Record<string, string>`

  Define global variable replacements. Entries will be defined as globals during dev and statically replaced during build.

### plugins

- **Type:** ` (Plugin | Plugin[])[]`

  Array of plugins to use. See [Plugin API](/guide/api-plugin) for more details on Vite plugins.

### root

- **Type:** `string`
- **Default:** `process.cwd()`

  Project root directory. Can be an absolute path, or a path relative from the location of the config file itself.

  See [Project Root](/guide/#project-root) for more details.

### base

- **Type:** `string`
- **Default:** `/`

  Base public path when served in development or production. Note the path should start and end with `/`. See [Public Base Path](/guide/build#public-base-path) for more details.

### mode

- **Type:** `string`
- **Default:** `'development'` for serve, `'production'` for build

  Specifying this in config will override the default mode for both serve and build. This value can also be overridden via the command line `--mode` option.

  See [Env Variables and Modes](/guide/env-and-mode) for more details.

### css.modules

- **Type:**

  ```ts
  interface CSSModulesOptions {
    scopeBehaviour?: 'global' | 'local'
    globalModulePaths?: string[]
    generateScopedName?:
      | string
      | ((name: string, filename: string, css: string) => string)
    hashPrefix?: string
    /**
     * default: 'camelCaseOnly'
     */
    localsConvention?: 'camelCase' | 'camelCaseOnly' | 'dashes' | 'dashesOnly'
  }
  ```

  Configure CSS modules behavior. The options are passed on to [postcss-modules](https://github.com/css-modules/postcss-modules).

### css.postcss

- **Type:** `string | (postcss.ProcessOptions & { plugins?: postcss.Plugin[] })`

  Inline PostCSS config (expects the same format as `postcss.config.js`), or a custom path to search PostCSS config from (default is project root). The search is done using [postcss-load-config](https://github.com/postcss/postcss-load-config).

  Note if an inline config is provided, Vite will not search for other PostCSS config sources.

### css.preprocessorOptions

- **Type:** `Record<string, object>`

  Specify options to pass to CSS pre-processors. Example:

  ```js
  export default {
    css: {
      preprocessorOptions: {
        scss: {
          additionalData: `$injectedColor: orange;`
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

### esbuild

- **Type:** `ESBuildOptions | false`

  `ESBuildOptions` extends [ESbuild's own transform options](https://esbuild.github.io/api/#transform-api). The most common use case is customizing JSX:

  ```js
  export default {
    esbuild: {
      jsxFactory: 'h',
      jsxFragment: 'Fragment'
    }
  }
  ```

  By default, ESBuild is applied to `ts`, `jsx` and `tsx` files. You can customize this with `esbuild.include` and `esbuild.exclude`, both of which expects type of `string | RegExp | (string | RegExp)[]`.

  In addition, you can also use `esbuild.jsxInject` to automatically inject JSX helper imports for every file transformed by ESBuild:

  ```js
  export default {
    esbuild: {
      jsxInject: `import React from 'react'`
    }
  }
  ```

  Set to `false` to disable ESbuild transforms.

### assetsInclude

- **Type:** `string | RegExp | (string | RegExp)[]`
- **Related:** [Asset Handling](/guide/features#asset-handling)

  Specify additional file types to be treated as static assets so that:

  - They will be excluded from the plugin transform pipeline when referenced from HTML or directly requested over `fetch` or XHR.

  - Importing them from JS will return their resolved URL string (this can be overwritten if you have a `enforce: 'pre'` plugin to handle the asset type differently).

  The built-in asset type list can be found [here](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/blob/main/packages/vite/src/node/constants.ts).

### dedupe

- **Type:** `string[]`

  If you have duplicated copies of the same dependency in your app (likely due to hoisting or linked packages in monorepos), use this option to force Vite to always resolve listed dependencies to the same copy (from
  project root).

### logLevel

- **Type:** `'info' | 'warn' | 'error' | 'silent'`

  Adjust console output verbosity. Default is `'info'`.

### clearScreen

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true`

  Set to `false` to prevent Vite from clearing the terminal screen when logging certain messages. Via command line, use `--clearScreen false`.

## Server Options

### server.host

- **Type:** `string`

  Specify server hostname.

### server.port

- **Type:** `number`

  Specify server port. Note if the port is already being used, Vite will automatically try the next available port so this may not be the actual port the server ends up listening on.

### server.strictPort

- **Type:** `boolean`

  Set to `true` to exit if port is already in use, instead of automatically try the next available port.

### server.https

- **Type:** `boolean | https.ServerOptions`

  Enable TLS + HTTP/2. Note this downgrades to TLS only when the [`server.proxy` option](#server-proxy) is also used.

  The value can also be an [options object](https://nodejs.org/api/https.html#https_https_createserver_options_requestlistener) passed to `https.createServer()`.

### server.open

- **Type:** `boolean | string`

  Automatically open the app in the browser on server start. When the value is a string, it will be used as the URL's pathname.

  **Example:**

  ```js
  export default {
    server: {
      open: '/docs/index.html'
    }
  }
  ```

### server.proxy

- **Type:** `Record<string, string | ProxyOptions>`

  Configure custom proxy rules for the dev server. Expects an object of `{ key: options }` pairs. If the key starts with `^`, it will be interpreted as a `RegExp`.

  Uses [`http-proxy`](https://github.com/http-party/node-http-proxy). Full options [here](https://github.com/http-party/node-http-proxy#options).

  **Example:**

  ```js
  export default {
    server: {
      proxy: {
        // string shorthand
        '/foo': 'http://localhost:4567/foo',
        // with options
        '/api': {
          target: 'http://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com',
          changeOrigin: true,
          rewrite: (path) => path.replace(/^\/api/, '')
        }
        // with RegEx
        '^/fallback/.*': {
          target: 'http://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com',
          changeOrigin: true,
          rewrite: (path) => path.replace(/^\/fallback/, '')
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

### server.cors

- **Type:** `boolean | CorsOptions`

  Configure CORS for the dev server. This is enabled by default and allows any origin. Pass an [options object](https://github.com/expressjs/cors) to fine tune the behavior or `false` to disable.

### server.force

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Related:** [Dependency Pre-Bundling](/guide/dep-pre-bundling)

  Set to `true` to force dependency pre-bundling.

### server.hmr

- **Type:** `boolean | { protocol?: string, host?: string, port?: number, path?: string, timeout?: number, overlay?: boolean }`

  Disable or configure HMR connection (in cases where the HMR websocket must use a different address from the http server).

  Set `server.hmr.overlay` to `false` to disable the server error overlay.

### server.watch

- **Type:** `object`

  File system watcher options to pass on to [chokidar](https://github.com/paulmillr/chokidar#api).

## Build Options

### build.target

- **Type:** `string`
- **Default:** `'modules'`
- **Related:** [Browser Compatibility](/guide/build#browser-compatibility)

  Browser compatibility target for the final bundle. The default value is a Vite special value, `'modules'`, which targets [browsers with native ES module support](https://caniuse.com/es6-module).

  Another special value is 'esnext' - which only performs minimal trasnpiling (for minification compat) and assumes native dynamic imports support.

  The transform is performed with esbuild and the value should be a valid [esbuild target option](https://esbuild.github.io/api/#target). Custom targets can either be a ES version (e.g. `es2015`), a browser with version (e.g. `chrome58`), or an array of multiple target strings.

  Note the build will fail if the code contains features that cannot be safely transpiled by esbuild. See [esbuid docs](https://esbuild.github.io/content-types/#javascript) for more details.

### build.polyfillDynamicImport

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true` unless `build.target` is `'esnext'`

  Whether to automatically inject [dynamic import polyfill](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/dynamic-import-polyfill).

  The polyfill is auto injected into the proxy module of each `index.html` entry. If the build is configured to use a non-html custom entry via `build.rollupOptions.input`, then it is necessary to manually import the polyfill in your custom entry:

  ```js
  import 'vite/dynamic-import-polyfill'
  ```

  Note: the polyfill does **not** apply to [Library Mode](/guide/build#library-mode). If you need to support browsers without native dynamic import, you should probably avoid using it in your library.

### build.outDir

- **Type:** `string`
- **Default:** `dist`

  Specify the output directory (relative to [project root](/guide/#project-root)).

### build.assetsDir

- **Type:** `string`
- **Default:** `assets`

  Specify the directory to nest generated assets under (relative to `build.outDir`).

### build.assetsInlineLimit

- **Type:** `number`
- **Default:** `4096` (4kb)

  Imported or referenced assets that are smaller than this threshold will be inlined as base64 URLs to avoid extra http requests. Set to `0` to disable inlining altogether.

### build.cssCodeSplit

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true`

  Enable/disable CSS code splitting. When enabled, CSS imported in async chunks will be inlined into the async chunk itself and inserted when the chunk is loaded.

  If disabled, all CSS in the entire project will be extracted into a single CSS file.

### build.sourcemap

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `false`

  Generate production source maps.

### build.rollupOptions

- **Type:** [`RollupOptions`](https://rollupjs.org/guide/en/#big-list-of-options)

  Directly customize the underlying Rollup bundle. This is the same as options that can be exported from a Rollup config file and will be merged with Vite's internal Rollup options. See [Rollup options docs](https://rollupjs.org/guide/en/#big-list-of-options) for more details.

### build.commonjsOptions

- **Type:** [`RollupCommonJSOptions`](https://github.com/rollup/plugins/tree/master/packages/commonjs#options)

  Options to pass on to [@rollup/plugin-commonjs](https://github.com/rollup/plugins/tree/master/packages/commonjs). This applies to dependency pre-bundling as well.

### build.lib

- **Type:** `{ entry: string, name?: string, formats?: ('es' | 'cjs' | 'umd' | 'iife')[] }`
- **Related:** [Library Mode](/guide/build#library-mode)

  Build as a library. `entry` is required since the library cannot use HTML as entry. `name` is the exposed global variable and is required when `formats` includes `'umd'` or `'iife'`. Default `formats` are `['es', 'umd']`.

### build.manifest

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `false`
- **Related:** [Backend Integration](/guide/backend-integration)

  When set to `true`, the build will also generate a `manifest.json` file that contains mapping of non-hashed asset filenames to their hashed versions, which can then be used by a server framework to render the correct asset links.

### build.minify

- **Type:** `boolean | 'terser' | 'esbuild'`
- **Default:** `'terser'`

  Set to `false` to disable minification, or specify the minifier to use. The default is [Terser](https://github.com/terser/terser) which is slower but produces smaller bundles in most cases. Esbuild minification is significantly faster, but will result in slightly larger bundles.

### build.terserOptions

- **Type:** `TerserOptions`

  Additional [minify options](https://terser.org/docs/api-reference#minify-options) to pass on to Terser.

### build.cleanCssOptions

- **Type:** `CleanCSS.Options`

  Constructor options to pass on to [clean-css](https://github.com/jakubpawlowicz/clean-css#constructor-options).

### build.write

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true`

  Set to `false` to disable writing the bundle to disk. This is mostly used in [programmatic `build()` calls](/guide/api-javascript#build) where further post processing of the bundle is needed before writing to disk.

### build.emptyOutDir

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true` if `outDir` is inside `root`

  By default, Vite will empty the `outDir` on build if it is inside project root. It will emit a warning if `outDir` is outside of root to avoid accidentially removing important files. You can explicitly set this option to suppress the warning. This is also available via command line as `--emptyOutDir`.

## Dep Optimization Options

- **Related:** [Dependency Pre-Bundling](/guide/dep-pre-bundling)

### optimizeDeps.include

- **Type:** `string[]`

  Dependencies to force include in pre-bundling.

### optimizeDeps.exclude

- **Type:** `string | RegExp | (string | RegExp)[]`

  Dependencies to force exclude in pre-bundling.

### optimizeDeps.plugins

- **Type:** `Plugin[]`

  By default, Vite assumes dependencies ship plain JavaScript and will not attempt to transform non-js file formats during pre-bundling. If you wish to support special file types, e.g. `.vue` files, you will need to supply the relevant plugins via this option.

  Note that you will also need to include these plugins in the main `plugins` option in order to support the same file types during production build.

### optimizeDeps.auto

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true`

  Automatically run dep pre-bundling on server start? Set to `false` to disable.

Commit message:

refactor: remove optimizeDeps.plugins
BREAKING CHANGE: `optimizeDeps.plugins` has been removed. The dep
optimizer is now using `esbuild`, and all non-js files are automatically
externalized to be processed by Vite's transform pipeline when imported.

docs/config/index.md, after:

# Configuring Vite

## Config File

### Config File Resolving

When running `vite` from the command line, Vite will automatically try to resolve a config file named `vite.config.js` inside [project root](/guide/#project-root).

The most basic config file looks like this:

```js
// vite.config.js
export default {
  // config options
}
```

Note Vite supports using ES modules syntax in the config file even if the project is not using native Node ESM via `type: "module"`. In this case the config file is auto pre-processed before load.

You can also explicitly specify a config file to use with the `--config` CLI option (resolved relative to `cwd`):

```bash
vite --config my-config.js
```

### Config Intellisense

Since Vite ships with TypeScript typings, you can leverage your IDE's intellisense with jsdoc type hints:

```js
/**
 * type {import('vite').UserConfig}
 */
export default {
  // ...
}
```

Vite also directly supports TS config files. You can use `vite.config.ts` instead:

```ts
import { defineConfig } from 'vite'

export default defineConfig({
  // ...
})
```

### Conditional Config

If the config needs to conditional determine options based on the command (`serve` or `build`) or the [mode](/guide/env-and-mode) being used, it can export a function instead:

```js
export default ({ command, mode }) => {
  if (command === 'serve') {
    return {
      // serve specific config
    }
  } else {
    return {
      // build specific config
    }
  }
}
```

## Shared Options

### alias

- **Type:**
  `Record<string, string> | Array<{ find: string | RegExp, replacement: string }>`

  Will be passed to `@rollup/plugin-alias` as its [entries option](https://github.com/rollup/plugins/tree/master/packages/alias#entries). Can either be an object, or an array of `{ find, replacement }` pairs.

  When aliasing to file system paths, always use absolute paths. Relative alias values will be used as-is and will not be resolved into file system paths.

  More advanced custom resolution can be achieved through [plugins](/guide/api-plugin).

### define

- **Type:** `Record<string, string>`

  Define global variable replacements. Entries will be defined as globals during dev and statically replaced during build.

### plugins

- **Type:** ` (Plugin | Plugin[])[]`

  Array of plugins to use. See [Plugin API](/guide/api-plugin) for more details on Vite plugins.

### root

- **Type:** `string`
- **Default:** `process.cwd()`

  Project root directory. Can be an absolute path, or a path relative from the location of the config file itself.

  See [Project Root](/guide/#project-root) for more details.

### base

- **Type:** `string`
- **Default:** `/`

  Base public path when served in development or production. Note the path should start and end with `/`. See [Public Base Path](/guide/build#public-base-path) for more details.

### mode

- **Type:** `string`
- **Default:** `'development'` for serve, `'production'` for build

  Specifying this in config will override the default mode for both serve and build. This value can also be overridden via the command line `--mode` option.

  See [Env Variables and Modes](/guide/env-and-mode) for more details.

### css.modules

- **Type:**

  ```ts
  interface CSSModulesOptions {
    scopeBehaviour?: 'global' | 'local'
    globalModulePaths?: string[]
    generateScopedName?:
      | string
      | ((name: string, filename: string, css: string) => string)
    hashPrefix?: string
    /**
     * default: 'camelCaseOnly'
     */
    localsConvention?: 'camelCase' | 'camelCaseOnly' | 'dashes' | 'dashesOnly'
  }
  ```

  Configure CSS modules behavior. The options are passed on to [postcss-modules](https://github.com/css-modules/postcss-modules).

### css.postcss

- **Type:** `string | (postcss.ProcessOptions & { plugins?: postcss.Plugin[] })`

  Inline PostCSS config (expects the same format as `postcss.config.js`), or a custom path to search PostCSS config from (default is project root). The search is done using [postcss-load-config](https://github.com/postcss/postcss-load-config).

  Note if an inline config is provided, Vite will not search for other PostCSS config sources.

### css.preprocessorOptions

- **Type:** `Record<string, object>`

  Specify options to pass to CSS pre-processors. Example:

  ```js
  export default {
    css: {
      preprocessorOptions: {
        scss: {
          additionalData: `$injectedColor: orange;`
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

### esbuild

- **Type:** `ESBuildOptions | false`

  `ESBuildOptions` extends [ESbuild's own transform options](https://esbuild.github.io/api/#transform-api). The most common use case is customizing JSX:

  ```js
  export default {
    esbuild: {
      jsxFactory: 'h',
      jsxFragment: 'Fragment'
    }
  }
  ```

  By default, ESBuild is applied to `ts`, `jsx` and `tsx` files. You can customize this with `esbuild.include` and `esbuild.exclude`, both of which expects type of `string | RegExp | (string | RegExp)[]`.

  In addition, you can also use `esbuild.jsxInject` to automatically inject JSX helper imports for every file transformed by ESBuild:

  ```js
  export default {
    esbuild: {
      jsxInject: `import React from 'react'`
    }
  }
  ```

  Set to `false` to disable ESbuild transforms.

### assetsInclude

- **Type:** `string | RegExp | (string | RegExp)[]`
- **Related:** [Asset Handling](/guide/features#asset-handling)

  Specify additional file types to be treated as static assets so that:

  - They will be excluded from the plugin transform pipeline when referenced from HTML or directly requested over `fetch` or XHR.

  - Importing them from JS will return their resolved URL string (this can be overwritten if you have a `enforce: 'pre'` plugin to handle the asset type differently).

  The built-in asset type list can be found [here](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/blob/main/packages/vite/src/node/constants.ts).

### dedupe

- **Type:** `string[]`

  If you have duplicated copies of the same dependency in your app (likely due to hoisting or linked packages in monorepos), use this option to force Vite to always resolve listed dependencies to the same copy (from
  project root).

### logLevel

- **Type:** `'info' | 'warn' | 'error' | 'silent'`

  Adjust console output verbosity. Default is `'info'`.

### clearScreen

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true`

  Set to `false` to prevent Vite from clearing the terminal screen when logging certain messages. Via command line, use `--clearScreen false`.

## Server Options

### server.host

- **Type:** `string`

  Specify server hostname.

### server.port

- **Type:** `number`

  Specify server port. Note if the port is already being used, Vite will automatically try the next available port so this may not be the actual port the server ends up listening on.

### server.strictPort

- **Type:** `boolean`

  Set to `true` to exit if port is already in use, instead of automatically try the next available port.

### server.https

- **Type:** `boolean | https.ServerOptions`

  Enable TLS + HTTP/2. Note this downgrades to TLS only when the [`server.proxy` option](#server-proxy) is also used.

  The value can also be an [options object](https://nodejs.org/api/https.html#https_https_createserver_options_requestlistener) passed to `https.createServer()`.

### server.open

- **Type:** `boolean | string`

  Automatically open the app in the browser on server start. When the value is a string, it will be used as the URL's pathname.

  **Example:**

  ```js
  export default {
    server: {
      open: '/docs/index.html'
    }
  }
  ```

### server.proxy

- **Type:** `Record<string, string | ProxyOptions>`

  Configure custom proxy rules for the dev server. Expects an object of `{ key: options }` pairs. If the key starts with `^`, it will be interpreted as a `RegExp`.

  Uses [`http-proxy`](https://github.com/http-party/node-http-proxy). Full options [here](https://github.com/http-party/node-http-proxy#options).

  **Example:**

  ```js
  export default {
    server: {
      proxy: {
        // string shorthand
        '/foo': 'http://localhost:4567/foo',
        // with options
        '/api': {
          target: 'http://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com',
          changeOrigin: true,
          rewrite: (path) => path.replace(/^\/api/, '')
        }
        // with RegEx
        '^/fallback/.*': {
          target: 'http://jsonplaceholder.typicode.com',
          changeOrigin: true,
          rewrite: (path) => path.replace(/^\/fallback/, '')
        }
      }
    }
  }
  ```

### server.cors

- **Type:** `boolean | CorsOptions`

  Configure CORS for the dev server. This is enabled by default and allows any origin. Pass an [options object](https://github.com/expressjs/cors) to fine tune the behavior or `false` to disable.

### server.force

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Related:** [Dependency Pre-Bundling](/guide/dep-pre-bundling)

  Set to `true` to force dependency pre-bundling.

### server.hmr

- **Type:** `boolean | { protocol?: string, host?: string, port?: number, path?: string, timeout?: number, overlay?: boolean }`

  Disable or configure HMR connection (in cases where the HMR websocket must use a different address from the http server).

  Set `server.hmr.overlay` to `false` to disable the server error overlay.

### server.watch

- **Type:** `object`

  File system watcher options to pass on to [chokidar](https://github.com/paulmillr/chokidar#api).

## Build Options

### build.target

- **Type:** `string`
- **Default:** `'modules'`
- **Related:** [Browser Compatibility](/guide/build#browser-compatibility)

  Browser compatibility target for the final bundle. The default value is a Vite special value, `'modules'`, which targets [browsers with native ES module support](https://caniuse.com/es6-module).

  Another special value is 'esnext' - which only performs minimal trasnpiling (for minification compat) and assumes native dynamic imports support.

  The transform is performed with esbuild and the value should be a valid [esbuild target option](https://esbuild.github.io/api/#target). Custom targets can either be a ES version (e.g. `es2015`), a browser with version (e.g. `chrome58`), or an array of multiple target strings.

  Note the build will fail if the code contains features that cannot be safely transpiled by esbuild. See [esbuid docs](https://esbuild.github.io/content-types/#javascript) for more details.

### build.polyfillDynamicImport

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true` unless `build.target` is `'esnext'`

  Whether to automatically inject [dynamic import polyfill](https://github.com/GoogleChromeLabs/dynamic-import-polyfill).

  The polyfill is auto injected into the proxy module of each `index.html` entry. If the build is configured to use a non-html custom entry via `build.rollupOptions.input`, then it is necessary to manually import the polyfill in your custom entry:

  ```js
  import 'vite/dynamic-import-polyfill'
  ```

  Note: the polyfill does **not** apply to [Library Mode](/guide/build#library-mode). If you need to support browsers without native dynamic import, you should probably avoid using it in your library.

### build.outDir

- **Type:** `string`
- **Default:** `dist`

  Specify the output directory (relative to [project root](/guide/#project-root)).

### build.assetsDir

- **Type:** `string`
- **Default:** `assets`

  Specify the directory to nest generated assets under (relative to `build.outDir`).

### build.assetsInlineLimit

- **Type:** `number`
- **Default:** `4096` (4kb)

  Imported or referenced assets that are smaller than this threshold will be inlined as base64 URLs to avoid extra http requests. Set to `0` to disable inlining altogether.

### build.cssCodeSplit

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true`

  Enable/disable CSS code splitting. When enabled, CSS imported in async chunks will be inlined into the async chunk itself and inserted when the chunk is loaded.

  If disabled, all CSS in the entire project will be extracted into a single CSS file.

### build.sourcemap

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `false`

  Generate production source maps.

### build.rollupOptions

- **Type:** [`RollupOptions`](https://rollupjs.org/guide/en/#big-list-of-options)

  Directly customize the underlying Rollup bundle. This is the same as options that can be exported from a Rollup config file and will be merged with Vite's internal Rollup options. See [Rollup options docs](https://rollupjs.org/guide/en/#big-list-of-options) for more details.

### build.commonjsOptions

- **Type:** [`RollupCommonJSOptions`](https://github.com/rollup/plugins/tree/master/packages/commonjs#options)

  Options to pass on to [@rollup/plugin-commonjs](https://github.com/rollup/plugins/tree/master/packages/commonjs). This applies to dependency pre-bundling as well.

### build.lib

- **Type:** `{ entry: string, name?: string, formats?: ('es' | 'cjs' | 'umd' | 'iife')[] }`
- **Related:** [Library Mode](/guide/build#library-mode)

  Build as a library. `entry` is required since the library cannot use HTML as entry. `name` is the exposed global variable and is required when `formats` includes `'umd'` or `'iife'`. Default `formats` are `['es', 'umd']`.

### build.manifest

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `false`
- **Related:** [Backend Integration](/guide/backend-integration)

  When set to `true`, the build will also generate a `manifest.json` file that contains mapping of non-hashed asset filenames to their hashed versions, which can then be used by a server framework to render the correct asset links.

### build.minify

- **Type:** `boolean | 'terser' | 'esbuild'`
- **Default:** `'terser'`

  Set to `false` to disable minification, or specify the minifier to use. The default is [Terser](https://github.com/terser/terser) which is slower but produces smaller bundles in most cases. Esbuild minification is significantly faster, but will result in slightly larger bundles.

### build.terserOptions

- **Type:** `TerserOptions`

  Additional [minify options](https://terser.org/docs/api-reference#minify-options) to pass on to Terser.

### build.cleanCssOptions

- **Type:** `CleanCSS.Options`

  Constructor options to pass on to [clean-css](https://github.com/jakubpawlowicz/clean-css#constructor-options).

### build.write

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true`

  Set to `false` to disable writing the bundle to disk. This is mostly used in [programmatic `build()` calls](/guide/api-javascript#build) where further post processing of the bundle is needed before writing to disk.

### build.emptyOutDir

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true` if `outDir` is inside `root`

  By default, Vite will empty the `outDir` on build if it is inside project root. It will emit a warning if `outDir` is outside of root to avoid accidentially removing important files. You can explicitly set this option to suppress the warning. This is also available via command line as `--emptyOutDir`.

## Dep Optimization Options

- **Related:** [Dependency Pre-Bundling](/guide/dep-pre-bundling)

### optimizeDeps.include

- **Type:** `string[]`

  Dependencies to force include in pre-bundling.

### optimizeDeps.exclude

- **Type:** `string | RegExp | (string | RegExp)[]`

  Dependencies to force exclude in pre-bundling.

### optimizeDeps.link

- **Type:** `string[]`

  A list of packages to be treated as "linked". Linked packages will not be pre-bundled - Vite will analyze and pre-bundle its depndencies instead.

  Note that if you are using a monorepo via package manager workspaces, and have the packages listed as dependencies in your Vite entry package, Vite will automatically treat them as linked (by checking if it's inside `node_modules`). This option is only needed if you have unusual setups where your Vite app is importing from a package that isn't already linked as a Node-resolvable dependency.

### optimizeDeps.auto

- **Type:** `boolean`
- **Default:** `true`

  Automatically run dep pre-bundling on server start? Set to `false` to disable.
