docs/plugins/index.md, before:

# Plugins

## Official Plugins

### [@vitejs/plugin-vue](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/tree/main/packages/plugin-vue)

- Provides Vue 3 Single File Components support.

### [@vitejs/plugin-vue-jsx](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/tree/main/packages/plugin-vue-jsx)

- Provides Vue 3 JSX support (via [dedicated Babel transform](https://github.com/vuejs/jsx-next)).

### [@vitejs/plugin-react-refresh](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/tree/main/packages/plugin-react-refresh)

- Provides React Fast Refresh Support.

### [@vitejs/plugin-legacy](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/tree/main/packages/plugin-legacy)

- Provides legacy browsers support for the production build.

## Community Plugins

Check out [awesome-vite](https://github.com/vitejs/awesome-vite) - you can also submit a PR to list your plugins there.

## Rollup Plugins

[Vite plugins](../guide/api-plugin) are an extension of Rollup's plugin interface. Check out the [Rollup Plugin Compatibility section](../guide/api-plugin#rollup-plugin-compatibility) for more information.

Commit message:

docs: special queries, plugins vs features note (#1878)

docs/plugins/index.md, after:

# Plugins

:::tip NOTE
Vite aims to provide out-of-the-box support for common web development patterns. Before searching for a Vite or Compatible Rollup plugin, check out the [Features Guide](../guide/features.md). A lot of the cases where a plugin would be needed in a Rollup project are already covered in Vite.
:::

## Official Plugins

### [@vitejs/plugin-vue](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/tree/main/packages/plugin-vue)

- Provides Vue 3 Single File Components support.

### [@vitejs/plugin-vue-jsx](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/tree/main/packages/plugin-vue-jsx)

- Provides Vue 3 JSX support (via [dedicated Babel transform](https://github.com/vuejs/jsx-next)).

### [@vitejs/plugin-react-refresh](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/tree/main/packages/plugin-react-refresh)

- Provides React Fast Refresh Support.

### [@vitejs/plugin-legacy](https://github.com/vitejs/vite/tree/main/packages/plugin-legacy)

- Provides legacy browsers support for the production build.

## Community Plugins

Check out [awesome-vite](https://github.com/vitejs/awesome-vite) - you can also submit a PR to list your plugins there.

## Rollup Plugins

[Vite plugins](../guide/api-plugin) are an extension of Rollup's plugin interface. Check out the [Rollup Plugin Compatibility section](../guide/api-plugin#rollup-plugin-compatibility) for more information.
